---
layout: post
title:  "Favorite Mental Models from Super Thinking"
date: 2019-7-28 23:40:00 +0000
categories: Books
---

I recently finished *Super Thinking: The Big Book of Mental Models* by Gabriel Weinberg and Lauren McCann. The book is a whirlwind tour of mental models, patterns of thought that can help you be more effective in the world. I've been studying mental modes for a few years now and still learned a lot from this tome. I'm sure that the book will go down as one of the best books released this year. The thing about mental models is that they are universal useful. Once you've learned a model and identified how to put it in to practice, you start to see places where it can be used. That's why have a wide range of models at your disposal is useful. Here is a selection of my favorite models presented in the book. There is at least one model from each chapter, if you enjoy this, you'll love the book.
	1. Hanlon's Razor - "never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by carelessness." There has to be something human nature that jumps assuming the worst when things go wrong. Before applying Hanlon's Razor, if the bills don't get paid on time it's because the mail person destroyed the envelope because you didn't give them a big enough Christmas tip. After applying Hanlon's Razor, you come to the more realistic realization that the envelope was likely misplaced in transit and decide to pay the bill online next time.
	2. Thinking Gray - "You may think about issues in terms of black and white, but the truth is somewhere in between, a shade of gray." Things get classified as good or bad, Democrat or Republican, Cubs or Cardinals, but things are more likely in between the poles.
	3. Goodhart's Law - "When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure." The incentives created from tracking a metric cause us to work to the metric and not work towards what is actually most effective. In schools that require standardized tests, teachers are judged on how well their students do on these tests. This leads to the teachers teaching the students to do well on the standardized test but not on more important things.
	4. North Star - "the guiding vision of a company." The north star is what we're putting in the work for. A north star isn't unique to companies, individuals can have their own north star. Think deeply on what your north star is and use it to drive your actions in the world.
	5. Two Front War - "If you chase two rabbits, both will escape." By bighting off more than you can chew, you take on too much and end up losing everywhere.
	6. Shirky Principle - "Institutions will try to preserve the problem to which they are the solution." Companies pay untold fortunes to lobbyists to ensure that the problem the companies exist to solve stays. The book uses taxes and TurboTax as an example. If taxes were insanely easy, TurboTax loses its customer base. Therefore, they have incentive to keeping taxes more complicated than the average person is willing to learn.
	7. Confidence Interval - "an estimated range of numbers that you think may include the true value of the parameter you are studying, e.g., the approval rating." The poll and statistical data that is published always has a confidence interval.
	8. Unknown Unknowns - "the ones we don't know we don't know." These unknown unknows are risks that we haven't accounted for because we didn't know about them. 
	9. Influence Models - Robert Cialdini presents six models that lead to influence: reciprocity, commitment, liking, social proof, scarcity, and authority. These models are often used in advertising in order to get you to buy something.
	10. Directly Responsible Individual - "After every meeting, it is made clear that there is one DRI who is responsible and accountable for the success of each action item." Having one person accountable for the item helps us avoid the case of the task falling away.
	11. Only the Paranoid Survive - "Just because you won the market, however, doesn't mean you will win in perpetuity. Look at Sears, Kodak, Blockbuster, and other once great companies that have let time pass them by. They didn't change their models quick enough with new technology and other companies passed them by.
